Code of Conduct


0.0 Motto: In Code We Are One
=============================
We define and regard the Software Code in this topic simply as "Code"
Not to be confused with Code of Conduct term :)



1.0 About and Philosophy
====================
In recent years the Free and Open Source communities have finally been bolstered
by the popularity of the GNU and Linux projects. The popularity that nowadays GNU
and Linux enjoy we could say it would be the 'fault' of inertia of the 
abundance of new contributions, articles, diverse contributors, or maybe the 
ideology that stands behind it, which was kept with iron hands by the bigger
and older contributors, maintainers and owners surveilling the evolution.
We can consider that the ecosystem itself has been bolstered with new ideas,
philosophies, and even attracted the attention of big stakeholders worldwide.
Linux is enjoying a period of freedom, diversity and the possibility of a
everlasting project, since more and more code is being contributed, more and
more contributors appear and join social coding movements, coding groups,
hacker groups even.

What binds them all is a quite ancient and proud tradition of hacker culture
that bound the old coders together, providing space for the development of
the new age. That old and proud hacker culture was partially developed by
the Free Software social movement, in which our Code of Conduct will
thrive. We believe in the old principles of social justice combined with code.
We believe that people matter in the same manner as code.
Above all, we believe in a inclusive community, in a inclusive society.
Never again FOSS projects shall leave their members and contributors behind.
Inclusion must not divide our communities.

Yet in recent years we have seen the rise of discrimination, be it social,
political, by sex, gender, race, religion; in all levels of Free and Open Source
projects. We have seen the discrimination of identification firsthand in
various FOSS communities and projects, which is unaccaptable, the same as 
any kind of discrimination if deeply concerning in any kind of project.

We have seen the rise of the majority holding power over powerless minority,
and in the same time we have seen the rise minority holding power over majority.
We consider ourselves free folk with democratic ideals, and in the same time
we consider that social justice is of utmost importance when it's about
a community.

We hold very dear the ideals of pure code, of useful discussions over the code.
In our discussions and chats, be it regular talks or heated debates, we
hold very dear, no matter the individual, the importance of our contributors'
feelings, emotions and our whole community's feelings and emotions for the Code.
We hold very dear the professional happiness of our contributors.

We believe in Code excellence through the dedication of each individual.
We can consider ourselves a family that sometimes can hurt each others'
feelings, leave and come back, without feelings to not be considered and
left unrepaired.
We welcome all, no matter the cost. We do not want to loose members, since
the Code cannot and should not judge a person, we believe the person can 
judge the Code. And by the code alone sometimes - Cases like the lack of
discussion over the code, the lack of debate, and so forth.

We trust our members and contritors to behave, to control, to believe in the
common cause of the project.
Feelings and emotions must not affect our contributors' passion for writing Code
Feelings and emotions if need be, must be discussed and our members must 
show dedication and perseverance in tutoring the affected feelings and emotions
of members.
Tutoring requires empathy, but tutoring will not be suggested in context
of heated discussions and debate over Code, when the empathy required has
no such role in creating/modifying/repairing the Code. Tutoring in these
cases require a special attention, and thus we shall treat them 
separately and individually, but the obligation that 'nobody is left behind' 
still stands, no matter the Code.



2.0 Values
==========

* In Code We Are One, being the most important aspect of our existence together
        as a group and community. Without the Code and being one with the Code, we would
        not exist as a group or community. It is the common purpose of our contributions
* Be supportive and attentive, don't dismiss anything, because everything is possible
        especially nowadays
* Be patient, try to not dismiss without reason, while offering respect.
* Ignoring [persons] out of personal reasons: can be both a defensive tool, and a 
        offensive tool. Please use it with care, and most importantly not in a mocking way
* Be respectful, no matter the beliefs, sex, gender, race, religion and personal 
        identity in the discussion/chatting system
* Avoid as much as possible a destructive behavior: 
        Some persons might start a offtopic discussion (3.0 conditions) regarding 
        personal identification or other personal details. 
        Please be wary of our motto: (0.0) we echo around the Code, the details
        you offer about yourself are beyond the targetted Code-centered discussion, 
        and thus beyond the purpose and existence of our chatting-over-Code.
        While in the Code we are One, all human beings contributing to the project,
        as contributors should are recommended to not insert personal subjective
        reasons and private information in the chatting-over-Code. 
        Such insertions will be separated in designated chatting areas for 
        such discussions. 
        The tutors are mandatory obliged to help you walk and feel free to talk 
        in the designated chatting areas.
* The tutors can sometimes be responsible for you if the leadership requires.
        Please be respectful with the tutors as well, since they are your guiding
        perons(s) in our community. 
        The sole role of tutors is for contributors to feel safe and empowered!
* Direct Democracy in topics of high importance:
        Sometimes some contributors cannot be tolerated anymore, thus warnings will
        definitely follow. But to some extent, the code delivered by the person
        which cannot be tolerated is maybe of high importance to the project
        We believe that, alongside our motto, we can achieve peace talks so that
        the person which cannot be tolerated anymore will not have his Code
        abandoned, yet upon anonymous community vote, a chatban can follow with a 
        maximum of 12 months.
        Inflaming behavior (3.0), indiscriminately of sex, gender, religion, 
        identity, race; will be lead to chatbanning without vote.
* Anonymous
        We don't collect data about our users, so we will never know what sex,
        gender, religion, ethnic groups, race, personal identity we have in our 
        community. We prefer to keep the living beings alongside the Code indiscriminately
        We cherrish the love of living beings as well as any other social movement
        We cherrish the love of FOSS Code as any other FOSS projects
        Implication of the personal details would undermine the efforts of a
        successful Code and project
        Discussions can occur on anonymous chats and talks that we will provide,
        but be wary that anonymous means anonymous, any social discussion can
        be fake and misleading. 
        It is something that does not affec the Code, but in the same time it's 
        something in which the community leaders and owners cannot interfere
        We leave you to judge whether the chat is misleading, and we leave you
        to be responsible with the chat and report the leaders and owners about
        the chat. Based on unaccepted behaviors (3.0), leaders and owners will
        decide what's the best course of action.



3.0 Unaccaptable behavior
=========================

* Verbal abuse
        Although we are keep our motto in high regard, verbal abuse is not something
        that keeps us focused on our feelings and emotions. Verbal abuse keeps us
        focused on nothing else than hate.
        Even though verbal abuse can happen, please do not reply in the same manner!
        Remember we are all persons, and each can interpret verbal abuse in its own
        way.
        In the verbal abuse category we also include: illegal and unwanted use of 
        use of sexualized language, imagery or unwelcome sexual attention
        Please report and not reply!
* Trolling and Flaming
        We believe this is self-explanatory. There will be "Flame Galore" topics
        as separate discussions which will be unmoderrated and impersonal.
* Misleading and Misinformation
        Either one of them will not help us achieve the stance of our motto.
* Being mean and mean-spirited
        Our contributors must understand that through our motto, we are opening
        a path to freedom. Freedom can be confiscated by personal subjective 
        thoughts on some matters, depending on the person's culture.
        Mean-spirited would be persons that acquire the attention upon self and
        directing the attack against members in open-chat. We consider that to be
        the most uninspired method of starting an accusation(s).
        It is mandatory to report the incident to the board members and leadership!
* Unnecessary public shaming
        Since the dawn of days, this has been the best weapon against all the persons
        on the planet. 
        Public shaming is a politician's best weapon to overthrow, not repair or
        peacefully replace.
        It is, indeed, part of the civic disobedience although the community will
        never understand it positively. 
        At request, anonymous direct democratic vote can happen over the issue if the 
        issue is indeed damaging contributors' and community's image.
        But in the same time, we cannot dissallow public accusations unless they
        are as above unaccepted behaviors within the public shaming.
        All accusations are mandatory to be reported to the leadership team and owners
        The leadership team and the owners alone can decide what's the best course
        of action
* Private or public harrasment
        The best course of action will be decided upon report.
        The option of archiving the chat and sending to the reporting section will
        be provided by the development team.
        It is best to block the chat, in this way auto-archiving is triggered and
        your conversation will become the proof we need!
* Publishing others’ private information, such as a physical or electronic address, 
        without explicit permission.
        We trust you will read and understand GDPR, the European Directive for personal
        individual rights.
        We keep this in high regard, and as contributors you are empowered to uphold
        it publicly including public reports of accusations, the leadership will
        mandatory be at your side, alongside the tutors.
* Taking things personal on unmoderrated private topics
        Sometimes developers will require private or public areas to have unmoderrated
        talks. This is something that we consider democratic and keep in high regard.
        Anonymous voting is a mandatory feature.
        Please be advised that you are not allowed to feel offended of what is
        being discussed upon.
        As a example of conduit: in a public area where personally attacking
        each other is permitted, members have the permission to attack you
        personally regarding the/your Code, yet they do not have permission to assume
        based on sex, gender, religion, personal identity, race.
        At viewers discretion, an anonymous vote could force the discussion to
        go private.



4.0 Actions and Enforcement
===========================

The only ones entitled to enforce are the leadership and owners. Moderators of topics
    can only report if something is beyond the Code
As our motto suggests, we are One in the Code and this automatically means we will 
    accept commits from all directions, persons and groups, indiscriminately, and
    based on situation, anonymously.
There is no clause that we permanently exclude contributors from our cause, due to our
    motto and culture.
The main clause of banning a contributor would be chatbanning on all discussions
    and or also including the commit messages forbidden
We cannot exclude no one, indiscriminate to sex, gender, religion, race, personal
    identity and so forth.
We cannot exclude, based on certain conditions, contributions from convicted
    criminals.
Leadership and owners will also concentrate their actions on the given reports from the
    community and enforce the chatbanning over the abusers.
Abusers can be discriminating based on inciting to hate and discrimination. We do
    not tolerate incitement outside the Scope of the project. 
    Provokation is a means to an end, incites trolling and trolling goes beyond Code,
    beyond culture, with the exception of designated areas of flame.
    Incitement, provokation and assumption based on race, sex, gender, ethnic groups,
    personal identity is what drives conflict.
    Please be aware that you, yourself, are a abuser when you incite and assume, no
    matter the social status.
Code Abuse
    Abusing the Code simplifies by distrusting the Code based on sex, gender, ethnic
    group, personal identity, race. The motto states that We Are One in the Code, that
    means one shall not abuse the Code based on social status or above distinctions.
    Part of the Code abusing is the lack of personal control over the Code and its
    discussion. By enforcing your view over the commiter of the Code, based on sex,
    gender, race, religion and personal identity, you are eligible for chatbanning
    with the contributors' anonymous direct vote. With further abuse, the anonymous
    direct vote will be removed and direct chatbanning will follow.
    Code abuse also contains the lack of control of personal emotions over the Code: 
    We are all living beings, we are empathetic and have feelings, but inciteful 
    feelings over the Code ( which is overwhemingly less powerful than living 
    beings ) is unfounded and shall be treated as Code abuse.



Culture
=======

In our knowledge and philosophy, and Code, being all persons one with the Code, we must
understand that the transmitting of Free Knowledge is the most sacred.
We are all beings with consciousness, and maybe some have been convicted of severe
crimes ( sexual abuse, physical harrasment, etc. ) - they have a right to give something
back to the community as an act of repentance.
In our Philosophy and Code, we regard convicts' contributions as repentance to the
community in the conditions explained above ( 2.0, 3.0 )
Of course, judging on the severity of the crimes, social contribution will be severily
limited due to the fact that we want to discourage other members and contributors in all
possible crimes.
We highly believe in democratic ideas, we believe in our contributors' freeedom,
we believe that together we can be one in the Code, and regard the Code as
profesionally as possible!
We promote free speech and democracy. 
We congratulate persons that won the elections due to their hard work!
We regard in high reputation those that contribute to the project, no matter the sex,
gender, race, religion, ethnic group, personal identity!
We recommend our contributors to not offer positive reviews based sex, gender, ethnic 
origin, race, religion, personal identity, and so forth, due to the fact that it breaks 
our motto of being "One with the Code", but only by the contribution that they brought 
to the community

Contribution is not all about Code!
Contribution is also about peace talks, mediate talks without calling people names.
Mediate talks without classifying members based on assumption of being part of a
certain minority or majority based on race, sex, gender, religion, ethnic group, personal
identity!
Our culture tells us that there is no need for wars between sexes, genders, religions,
ethnic groups and personal identity! 
Chat wars / Flame wars while calling people names and assumption of being part of a
minority or majority based on what is described above - is not something that will help
us be one with the Code! It's something that divides the persons, and destroys the Code.

We firmly stand by our culture, and we welcome on all in it, because there is no other
more inclusive culture than ours!
Stand with the Code
In Code We Are One
